
- Cavanaugh - Eradicationist

James Michael Cavanaugh was originally from Springfield, Massachusetts, but moved to Minnesota in 1854, where he served in Congress for one term. He subsequently moved to Colorado and then Montana and served in the House of Representatives as a Democrat from 1867 to 1871. In the following congressional speech, Cavanaugh explains his attitude toward Indians in a discussion about Indian appropriations with Republican representative Benjamin Butler of Massachusetts.

==**I will say that I like an Indian better dead than living**.== *I have never in my life seen a good Indian (and I have seen thousands) except when I have seen a dead Indian*. I believe in the Indian policy pursued by New England in years long gone. I believe in the Indian policy which was taught by the great chieftain of Massachusetts, Miles Standish. ***I believe in the policy that exterminates the Indians, drives them outside the boundaries of civilization, because you cannot civilize them***. Gentlemen may call this very harsh language; but perhaps they would not think so if they had had my experience in Minnesota and Colorado. In Minnesota the almost living babe has been torn from its mother’s womb; and I have seen the child, with its young heart palpitating, nailed to the window-sill. I have seen women who were scalped, disfigured, outraged. In Denver, Colorado Territory, I have seen women and children brought in scalped. Scalped why? Simply because the Indian was “upon the war-path,” to satisfy his devilish and barbarous propensities. You have made your treaties with the Indians, but they have not been observed.… The Indian will make a treaty in the fall, and in the spring he is again “upon the war-path.” *The torch, the scalping-knife, plunder, and desolation follow wherever the Indian goes.*

But, Mr. Chairman, I will answer the gentleman’s question more directly. My friend from Massachusetts [Mr. Butler] has never passed the barrier of the frontier. All he knows about Indians (the gentleman will pardon me for saying it) may have been gathered, I presume, from the brilliant pages of the author of “The Last of the Mohicans,” or from the lines of the poet Longfellow in “Hiawatha.” The gentleman has never yet seen the Indian upon the war-path. He has never been chased, as I have been, by these<span style="background:#ff4d4f"> red devils</span> — who seem to be the pets of the eastern philanthropists.

Source: U.S. Congress, The Congressional Globe: Containing the Debates and Proceedings of the Second Session of the Fortieth Congress, May 28, 1868, 2638.
