```table-of-contents
```

# Weekly Presentation Survey: 
- have your own twist on it!

- (will be graded, cannot be generic, unique feature)
- title
- what type of contribution does this paper make?
- list 3 keywords that capture the core ideas of this paper
	- ray tracing, acceleration structures, BVH (not from keyword list, think of original ones)
- What stood out to you about this paper
	- graded
- whats one thing you learned?
	- not as strict, but be introspective
- How well did the presentation explain the paper's content?
	- 1,2,3,4,5
	- unclear, gaps, adequate, clear, excellent
- Briefly explain your rating. What about the paper's content was covered well or could be improved?

## Outline:
- typically, outline doesn't do much, since can be confusing
- maria likes it when the outline is high level


## Problem:
- why is it important

## Prior Approaches:
- what has been done in past
- disadvantages from previous solutions
- why its an important problem to solve/understand

## Key Idea:
- asdfadf

## Table
- list things you need to solve the problems

## Math equations
- there will be equations...
- don't show it all at once
- be gentle

## Results
- could be graph, list, table, numbers
- Why is this good? Where is this relevant?
- Where can I use this approach? What are the limitations


## (Recap) Strengths
- sdffa

## (Recap) Limitations
- computation-wise
- when does it apply
- when is it effective

## Impact & Legacy
- why is this still relevant?
- Where are we using this?
- do people still use fragments of this?
- Could use google scholar and check the citations to see how important the paper is

## Discussion Questions
- audience questions
- questions you have that you want to expand upon
- consequences


##