https://www.coursera.org/learn/software-developer-career-guide-and-interview-preparation/lecture/KSzR3/company-and-industry-research

# Company and Industry Research
- How to research company you will be interviewing w/
- Recognize good sources for company and industry research
- Discuss how to conduct informational interview

*Learn as much as possible about org you're interviewing w/ and industry you want to enter*
### Company website
- first source to investigate
	- History
		- goals and culture
	- Keywords
	- Careers
		- plans for expansion
	- Data

#### *Other research sources*
- Chamber of Commerce and Better Business Bureau
- Social media
- Web search for news items and articles
- LinkedIn
- Glassdoor

### Plan an information interview
- Not job interview, just to research careers
- valuable tips and expert advice as you choose career path!
- Find someone to interview:
	- By researching companies:
	- on social media and professional networks
	- by referral from a teacher or friend
- *Conducting your interview*:
	- Allow conversation to flow naturally
	- Take good notes
	- Keep track of time
	- List of questions shouldn't take >30 mins
	- thank you not to interviewee
- *Questions to Ask:*
	- History:
		- How'd you become interested in role?
		- How'd you prepare to enter field?
		- How'd you begin career?
	- Current role:
		- What is typical workday like for you?
		- What do you like most about work?
		- What is one of fav projects that you've worked on?
		- What is most difficult challenge you've dealt with?
		- What would you like to accomplish next in career?
	- Advice:
		- What related fields or career paths would you recommend I also look into?
		- How do you stay current and learn new tech?
		- What current issues and trends in field should I be aware of?
		- What are most effective strategies for seeking position in this field?

# Networking Online and Offline
- Diff ways to network online and online

### Networking is essential
- Develop and improve skill set
- Stay on top of latest trends in industry
- Keep a pulse on job market
- Meet prospective mentors, partners, and clients
- Gain access to necessary resources that will foster your career dev

### Prof networking sites
- LinkedIn, Glassdoor, or Monster


