Hitchhikers are team members who piggy-back off the success of other team members - who end up having their kind/tolerant characteristics taken advantage of - without much consequence. Hitchhikers have the uncanny ability of detecting how much work they can get away with, and they manipulate their way into achieving just that; As a result, they're often accusatory, blame-deflecting, and criticizing, despite being in the wrong.

Couch potatoes are similar in that they don't pull their own weight; Although they aren't usually as manipulative, they will take advantage of your kind/tolerant characteristics in the same way: They take advantage of people's determination to not fail, people's devotion to the ideal of 'the good of the team, people's desire to make others happy at their own expense, people's lack of delegation-skills, and, overall, people's weak limits. Couch potatoes — unlike hitchhikers who are often destructive and irreparable — are fairly benign, and can be guided to do reasonably good work, and can even become your friends!

When dealing with hitchhikers, it is crucial not to absorb all of their problems and to, instead, confront them directly and show you have a bottom line. To start off with, set your limits early and high, constantly warning them whenever hitchhiking ensues. If they continue to hitchhike, then act consistently and discuss their behavior with the professor  (e.g., show proof of their lack of work) , where they can be punished or fired, or even allow you to move to another team in extreme cases. It is important to understand that, despite your efforts to chastise and correct them, the hitchhiker alone is the only one who can change their attitude. All in all, don't allow their dysfunctional patterns early on - "before the hitchhiker takes advantage of you and the rest of the team!"

Dealing with couch potatoes is essentially the same way you deal with hitchhikers: set early and firm, explicit expectations - if that fails, discuss options of punishment/firing or moving (to a new team) with the professor. Remember to be kind and reasonable with yourself; Would you rather waste time taking on everyone's responsibilities because you think you can salvage your team's grade, or would you rather spend that time spending with your family, friends, on your hobbies, or on other valuable schoolwork that needs to be done?

All in all, dealing with hitchhikers, couch potatoes, and free-riders alike is an unpleasant and tricky predicament. However, with patience and effort, dealing with them will help you grow into a more resilient person, one who is equipped with the techniques to maintain your well-being and face the potential hardships throughout your professional career. Through this, you will probably keep your hair for a little while longer!
