Source 21.7

Claude McKay | “If We Must Die,” 1919

Jamaican-born writer Claude McKay moved to the United States in 1912 and influenced many writers of the Harlem Renaissance. His poems focus primarily on race relations and the lives of working-class African Americans. The following poem is one of his most powerful and well-known works, written in reaction to the violence against African Americans in the summer of 1919.

- **A defiant and militant call for African Americans to <span style="background:#fff88f">resist racial violence and persecution with courageous self-defense</span>,<span style="background:#fff88f"> facing death not in passive despair but with dignity and honor, </span>thereby forcing respect from their oppressors.**

- avoid dying **"like hogs / Hunted and penned in an inglorious spot"** while being mocked by their oppressors (the "mad and hungry dogs").
- Their blood will not be shed in vain if they die **"nobly"** (with honor and courage) and if they are brave enough to **"deal one death-blow"** for every thousand blows they receive.
	- The act of noble resistance will be so powerful that **"even the monsters we defy / Shall be constrained to honor us though dead!"**—meaning their enemies will be forced to acknowledge their bravery and humanity upon their death.
- He calls on his "kinsmen" to **meet the common foe** with courage, urging them to **"show us brave"** despite being "far outnumbered." It is a plea for unified and decisive action.

	*If we must die, let it not be like hogs*
	
	*Hunted and penned in an inglorious spot,*
	
	*While round us bark the mad and hungry dogs,*
	
	*Making their mock at our accursèd lot.*
	
	*If we must die, O let us nobly die,*
	
	*So that our precious blood may not be shed*
	
	*In vain; then even the monsters we defy*
	
	*Shall be constrained to honor us though dead!*
	
	*O kinsmen! we must meet the common foe!*
	
	*Though far outnumbered let us show us brave,*
	
	*And for their thousand blows deal one death-blow!*
	
	*What though before us lies the open grave?*
	
	*Like men we’ll face the murderous, cowardly pack,*
	
	*Pressed to the wall, dying, but fighting back!*
	

