# Interview Prep
## Best Practices
1. Know Everything On Your Resume
2. Prepare for Common/Guaranteed Questions
3. Research the Company (Values)
4. Be Authentic
5. Sell Yourself
6. Keep it Concise
7. Show enthusiasm (Ask Effective Questions)

## Guaranteed Questions
1. Tell Me About Yourself
	1. 30-60 sec "Elevator Pitch" / First Impression - Short, Direct, Attention-grabbing
		- Snapshot of present, past, and future
	2. Dive into Class Projects, Internships, Leadership Exp
		- Don't worry about impressiveness levels but rather your qualities
	3. Soften the mood. Friendly intro, positive tone.
	4. Highlight Overlooked Resume Items

2. Why Are You Interested In Our Company?
	1. don't be too general, unconvincing, or boring.
	2. **Ask yourself:** What specific aspect of this company’s mission, culture, or product deeply resonates with my personal values, experiences, and career goals?
		- Have you used the product? 
		- Do the challenges they face interest you _and are these challenges unique to the company_? 
		- Do you read their [engineering blogs](https://github.com/kilimchoi/engineering-blogs) or have you seen them recently on the news?
	- Note: The question **“What are you looking for in your next role?”** should be answered similarly. An interviewer wants to ensure that your career goals align with the role and the company.

3. Why Are You Interested In Software Engineering?
	1. This is a question that is rarely directly asked, but you'll need to know your own unique answer to it. Reflect on your journey and growth, take note of what you've learned. 
		- *"Whether the question is explicitly asked or not, your enthusiasm for the role, eagerness to learn, and passion for software engineering should be evident throughout the interview."*

### Elevator Pitch
1. Basic background info
	- condensed version of resume
	- who you are, who you work for, what you do, internships, school and major, focus areas, noteworthy projects
	- Tell them the executive summary: "I reverse engineered X game by decrypting Y packet to predict Z."
- Why do they want you?
	- is your experience relevant? did you use a similar tech stack as the company or built relevant products? what do you bring that may give them confidence about your ability to contribute to the company?
#### Pitch Ex: Front End Engineer at Meta
##### Self introduction

> "Hi I'm XXX and I graduated from National University of Singapore in 2015 with a degree in Computer Science. My interests are in Front End Engineering and I love to create beautiful and performant products with delightful user experiences.
> 
> Back in school, I designed and built a web application, NUSMods which solves a huge problem of class and timetable planning every semester. It receives over a million pageviews a month and is used by over 40,000 NUS students and even some professors. It is built using a modern web technology stack - React, Redux, Jest, Babel, Flow, webpack and is mobile-responsive."
> 
> I'm interested in the Front End Engineer role at Meta because I have been using Meta Open Source Front End technologies for a while now and am inspired by Meta's mission and Open Source culture.

### Elevator Pitch Pitfalls
- Speaking too fast
- Overloading w/ Details, stick to 3 points max
- Lack of tailoring (too generic and impersonal)

## General Questions
### Common Behavioral Topics
- difficult situation
- mistake
- collaboration

- "Tell me about a time you failed"
- "How do you handle a conflict"
- "Why are you interested in our company?"

## Important takeaway:
- "What you need is not so much a list of “incidents” but more generally some self-awareness on what you care about and how you’ve progressed and how you see your career."
	- You should be able to thoroughly discuss each of your work experiences. Interviewers will often hone into one experience that is either your most recent or most closely aligns with their role. They may ask thoughtful questions such as “What would you have done differently if you could do this internship over again?” or “Why are you no longer involved in this student organization?” These questions are designed to probe your critical thinking and self-awareness, so be prepared for deeper inquiries.
- You don't need to know every answer to every question. Be forthcoming when you don’t know the answer to something... recognize when you need to learn something new and take the proactive steps to address them
# Interview Habits

## Don't go over 2 minutes
- low attention span, bored
- conciseness is important sometimes
- preparation is key
## Be confident, don't be middle-ground
- no one wants someone who feels lukewarm about the job
- be excited! Motivated! Questioning! Don't be hard-to-get or arrogant, nor too casual
- good body language
## Don't self-sabotage yourself with THESE MISTAKES:
1. Lack of professionalism
	- being late
		- shows unreliability
	2. dressing inappropriately
	3. no job etiquette
		1. not sending thank you notes afterwards
2. Lack of preparation
3. Lack of content
4. Negativity

Resources:
- Top Interview Questions:
[https://www.techinterviewhandbook.org/behavioral-interview-questions/](https://www.techinterviewhandbook.org/behavioral-interview-questions/)

STAR METHOD: (SUPER IMPORTANT)

