Describe and evaluate the competing ideas about race and ethnicity that shaped opinions about immigrants and their place in American society at the turn of the twentieth century.

In his play <font color="#ffff00">The Melting-Pot</font> (1908), writer Israel Zangwill created what would become the dominant metaphor of immigrant assimilation (Source 18.6). Zangwill portrayed people from different backgrounds entering American society, undergoing a process of assimilation, and becoming citizens virtually indistinguishable from their native-born counterparts. When the play premiered at the Columbia Theater in Washington, D.C., <span style="background:#fff88f">President Theodore Roosevelt, to whom the play was dedicated, was in the audience and reportedly cheered the production</span>. The play went on to become a hit on Broadway the following year.

The reality of immigrant assimilation was more complicated than Zangwill’s “melting pot” metaphor suggested (Source 18.7). There is some truth in Zangwill’s metaphor: In the days before radio and television, immigrants absorbed new values, language, style of dress, taste in foods, and sense of humor from schools, newspapers, magazines, and silent movies. **However, many of them also valued aspects of their native cultural and social heritages and took pains to preserve cherished traditions and beliefs** (Source 18.8). Although immigrants saw the necessity of some degree of assimilation, **many were unwilling to become “fully American” if that meant completely abandoning their previous cultural identities.** In this way, the immigrant experience resembled vegetable soup — a mixture of distinct pieces in the same broth — more complex than a melting pot. Assimilation also varied by generation, with the children of immigrants becoming more Americanized than their parents.

While many Americans saw assimilation as a requirement of true citizenship (Source 18.9), others rejected the very possibility of assimilation, <span style="background:#ff4d4f">arguing that immigrants were inherently inferior and could not be absorbed into American society</span> (Sources 18.8 and 18.10).
