Born in the South, William Birney was educated in the North, spent time in Europe, supported the abolition of slavery, and became a general in the Union Army during the Civil War. In civilian life he was a journalist, author, and attorney. In this letter to the editor of the Washington Post during the upsurge of immigration to the United States in the 1890s, <span style="background:#fff88f">Birney protested religious discrimination against Muslims from Turkey as well as that against Catholics, Jews, and those of any religion.</span> *It should be noted that the federal official who banned the “Mohammedans” was an Armenian, a group of people subjected to persecution by the Turks.*

- argues that such religious discrimination **is absurd and un-American, violating the country's principle of religious freedom**
- 



Five Men and a lad of fifteen, immigrants from Turkey, passengers on the Caledonia, have been held in custody in New York since last Monday and are to be deported, by order of the United States Supervisors of Immigration. The cause of the imprisonment and banishment is that the newcomers, on being questioned by a subordinate official, admitted that they were Mohammedans. This official happened to be Armenian.

…Where is this sort of thing to end? If the Turks can be deported this year, they may have the upper hand next year, and deport the Armenians. And if the principle should be approved, it may be applied to any persons whom officials at the time may think dangerous, to Jews, Catholics, Mormons, Cubans, Spaniards….

This deportation by order of a board, because of religion, is too absurd to be tolerated by the authorities…. It is the glory of our country that a man may believe in anything; but if he injures other people, the law takes hold of him. If anyone commits bigamy he is punishable.

There are Mohammedans in the United States. Some of them are missionaries sent to New York to convert the people.

If we do deport Mohammedans, the Sultan [of Turkey] may retort by deporting American missionaries—whom he regards as a demoralizing and dangerous class. If he should what can we say against it?

If we let Mohammedan immigrants alone, showing ourselves civilized and kind-hearted, they will soon become Americans in feeling and habits.

Source: William Birney, Deporting Mohammedans [Letter to the Editor], Washington Post, November 21, 1897, p. 13

